# koyu's personal space

Hi, I'm koyu (usually called Leonie in real life) and I am a programmer located in Northern Germany establishing internet services for you and your friends.

## Projects

=> https://koyu.space/about/more#services I'm the benevolent dictator for life of koyu.space and its services
=> fossil.gmi I made a browser to browse Gemini and Gopher
=> gemini://koyu.space I host Gemini sites for other people
=> gemini://koyu.space/rockshow/ ...and also host a radio show on tilderadio

## Log

=> log/ly.gmi The ly display manager
=> log/why-i-like-the-fediverse.gmi Why I like the fediverse
=> log/exploring-gemini.gmi Exploring Gemini
=> log/why-the-1-as-favicon.gmi Why the “1” as favicon?
=> log/the-power-of-decentralization.gmi The power of decentralization
=> log/rambling-about-linux-vs-windows.gmi Rambling about Linux vs. Windows
=> log/how-to-plan-and-host-a-mastodon-instance.gmi How to plan and host a Mastodon instance
=> log/how-to-compile-butt-on-solus.gmi How to compile butt on Solus

## About me

* Is 22 years old
* Likes computers and anything above
* Can read out Brathering without pronouncing it in English
* Speaks German and English fluently and can read and understand romanic languages like Spanish, French or Italian
* Can walk for a couple of hours without being exhausted
* Listens to any music style
* My brain might crash randomly, because it runs Windows. Sad.
* Can program in the devil’s programming language: JavaScript

I am also on Tilderadio with my rock show every Thursday at 18:00 UTC.

## Social

* Fediverse/E-Mail: koyu@koyu.space
* Xbox/Twitch/Telegram: bubblineyuri
* Matrix: @koyu:leftism.su

I'm most active over on Telegram, Fediverse and via E-Mail and you can reach me best between 10 and 22 in CET/CEST. Please wait a few hours for a response as I have a lot of people messaging me. I answer every friend request on the Xbox network, but only favourite people I already met.

# Xbox

I have an Xbox Series S, click below to visit the Xbox Portal to see what games I own and what I have around here

=> xbox.gmi Xbox Portal

## Instance Recommendations

=> instances.csv Full list as CSV file
=> instance-howto.gmi How to get listed

* fedi.absturztau.be
* cdrom.tokyo
* raru.re
* koyu.space
* qoto.org
* ieji.de
* social.tchncs.de
* cybre.space
* lets.bemoe.online

## Capsules from friends, family or acquaintances

=> gemini://gem.chriswere.uk Chris Were
=> gemini://hexdsl.co.uk HexDSL
=> gemini://friendo.monster Friendo aka Drew
=> gemini://koyu.space/pukima/ Pukima
=> gemini://koyu.space/SEEK/ SEEK
=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/~shufei/ shufei
=> gemini:/gemlog.blue/users/kettlevoid/ Kettlevoid
=> gemini://distro.tube Distrotube
=> gemini://perso.pw:1966/solene/ Solene
