```
  _                     
 | |                    
 | | _____  _   _ _   _ 
 | |/ / _ \| | | | | | |  koyu's personal gemini capsule
 |   < (_) | |_| | |_| |      inside a nerd's life
 |_|\_\___/ \__, |\__,_|      You are here: Gemlog
             __/ |      
            |___/       
```

# Why I quit playing Apex Legends
Posted on April 30, 2021 by koyu

I quit Apex. This game sucked too hard for me for a lot of reasons. I will elaborate some of them.

## You need a lot of friends

I do have a lot of friends, but most of them either play ranked matches only, are busy or don't like the game as much as I did. Since everybody plays ranked and you need weeks if not months to get to platinum I decided not to invest my time or money into the game. It's simply not the game it was without them.

## Odd teammates and broken matchmaking

If I decide to play duos or trios (there's no solo mode, yet) I get matched with teams either ranked way too high and instantly die or I get team mates behaving like bots and dying outside the zone. This is exactly the reason why I play with friends that are making sane decisions and not pushing me to have my rank torn apart.

## Nothing new, nothing special

I know, there have been numerous big announcements for May what EA wants Apex to be, but for the past few months I was playing the game there hasn't been really any new content so far. It's weird.

## The game is massive

The game has too many weapons, skins, textures all fitting in a whopping 63GB (this is about as big as the biggest game I own for my Xbox, Forza Horizon 4) and since I am seeking to play more games over time I had to get rid of something I rarely play anyway.

## Is the game bad though?

No, absolutely not. It just became boring over time and with no friends to play I don't see the reason to pick it up any soon. I will look into it if I find more friends to play it, otherwise it will stay deleted from my SSD for quite some time.